Assignment Content

 
The administration of Washington D.C wants to make a deeper analysis of the usage of the bike-sharing service present in the city in order to build a predictor model that helps the public transport department anticipate better the provisioning of bikes in the city. For these purposes, some data is available for the years 2011 and 2012.

Main goals
As part of the team of the hired consultancy firm, your work is to build an interactive, insightful and complete report about the bike-sharing service in the city for the head of transportation services of the local government. As part of the requirements, there are two big points:

The customer wants a deep analysis of the bike-sharing service. He wants to know how the citizens are using the service in order to know if some changes must be made to optimize costs or provide a better service.
The customer also wants a predictive model able to predict the total number of bicycle users on an hourly basis. They believe this will help them in the optimization of bike provisioning and will optimize the costs incurred from the outsourcing transportation company.

Grading criteria

Data Analysis (descriptive analytics) (3 points)
Ensuring data quality (correctness, consistency, missing values, outliers...).
Plotting clear and meaningful figures.
Giving insights on what seems relevant for prediction and what does not.
Discussion on missing values and outliers
Treatment of text and date features
Generation of extra features (e.g., season, yes/no holiday, hours of daylight, combinations of features, quantization/binarization, polynomial features)
Provide useful explanations about the decisions taken and the results obtained
NOTES:
There's no limit to the number of figures or insights to extract, but the quality will count more than the quantity. 

Machine Learning (predictive analytics) (3 points)
Choosing the best model to solve the problem (linear and non-linear).
Split data correctly to train and test your models
Tuning model parameters with validation
Obtaining accurate predictions in tests
Plotting predictions vs. reality for additional insights
Deep analysis of results and insights given the features
Provide explanations about the decisions taken (chosen model, hyperparameter settings, evaluation metric employed, etc.)
NOTES:
Limit the libraries to those seen in class: sklearn, xgboost, lightgbm, catboost, pycaret, pandas, etc
This model will not be evaluated just by the score obtained

Interactive report with Streamlit (4 points)
Requirement: Use Streamlit (https://streamlit.io/)
Include all knowledge from the previous points in a unified tool that comprises all knowledge about data and satisfies the requirements of the customer.
Try to use headers and subheaders to separate the different parts of your work
Use separate sections to tell your story with cohesion. Missings, creation of new variables, exploratory data analysis, modeling, and recommendations about the actions to take by the results.
Include Plotly graphs to show your insights but also to show the analysis of the results of your models.
Include some kind of interactivity to your graphs by including text boxes, sliders, and any kind of input type element in Streamlit.
NOTES:
To include graphics, data, and the results of the model you can export all elements you need from the notebook (in CSV, json, or any other format) and then read it again in the dashboard script.

These grading criteria contain just some points to take into account. The final grading will take into account more things like programming style, cleanliness, the correct use of pandas and other libraries (without redundant code), and the creativity of the group to provide an original solution that solves the business problem. Use your creativity and your already-acquired knowledge of engineering, machine learning, plotting, and programming to build a sophisticated tool for the local government department.

Submission

Jupyter Notebook with all code developed for this assignment. This includes all exploratory data analysis and machine learning models. Name: Group<groupname>_Notebook_Assignment2.ipynb
Python script that launches the streamlit dashboard. Name: Group<groupname>_StreamlitSrc_Assigment2.py
This script must be ready to be executed with the command streamlit run <yourscriptname> without errors.


Insights:
- Maintenance Big/Small (Months, Days, Hours)
- Demand strenghts (casual, registered)
- Moving Trends (Holidays, Month, Daytime, Day, Weekend)

Suggestions: 
- Incentives to take bikes from more crowded stations and to return bikes to empty stations
- When are the bikes used by whom? Where should they be provided?
    - Higher rates for casual users during the registered busy times


Outliers:
- Figured out, that the outliers are mostly common for holidays and generated by casuals, therfore we keep those.
